#summary How ton install COPODA
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

== How to get and install COPODA in alpha version ? ==

  # Go into your Matlab toolbox folder and type:
  {{{
  svn checkout http://copoda.googlecode.com/svn/tags/alpha/ copoda-package
  }}}
  This command will create a directory named `copoda-package` with two subfolders: `copoda` and `odata`.
  # cd to the folder: `copoda-package/copoda`
  # Launch Matlab from there,
  # At the Matlab prompt, run the following script: `copoda_install`

And let the routine installs the package for you, you should be all set afterward ...

== Versions ==

=== Alpha ===
The alpha version of the code is the very first version of the package as initially developed by G. Maze (the first routines in summer/2009). This version was written under Mac OS X 10.5 with Matlab R 2007a.

We are first working to fix bugs due to platform compatibility and missing routines. Once the package will be Mac/Linux/Windows compatible, we'll move to version beta for larger testing.

=== Trunk ===

The Alpha release is a frozen copy of the initial upload. We are working on the trunk version on a daily basis, so you may prefer to download the trunk version to get the very last updates. To do so, just use:

{{{
svn checkout http://copoda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ copoda-package
}}}

== How to updates ==
  # cd to the folder: `copoda-package` or where ever you downloaded the code using svn
  # simply type:
  {{{
svn update
}}}

== Troubles ==

May be you already check out the code using the tab source/checkout instructions. In this case, your copy of the code is under `copoda-read-only` and not `copoda-package`. Skip steps 1 and 2, cd to folder `copoda-read-only/copoda` and follow the rest of the instructions.