#summary Matlab class overview
#labels Documentation

= Matlab class: a brief overview =

In the MATLAB language, each value is assigned to a class. For example, creating a variable with an assignment statement (the operator =) constructs a variable of the appropriate class:
{{{
>> a = 7;
>> b = 'some string';
>> whos
  Name      Size            Bytes  Class     

  a         1x1                 8  double
  b         1x11               22  char 
}}}
Basic commands like `whos` display the class of each value in the workspace. This information helps MATLAB users to recognize that some values are characters and display as text while other values might be double, single, or other types of numbers. Some variables can contain different classes of values like cells.

You can view classes as new data types having specific behaviors defined for the class. For example, a polynomial class might redefine the addition operator (+) so that it correctly performs the operation of addition on polynomials. In our case the addition operator between two Transect objects could create a Database object. Operations defined to work with objects of a particular class are known as methods of that class. When you define a class, you can overload special MATLAB functions (plus.m for the addition operator) that are called by the MATLAB runtime when those operations are applied to an object of your class.

MATLAB classes use the following words to describe different parts of a class definition and related concepts.
  *Class definition — Description of what is common to every instance of a class.
  *Properties — Data storage for class instances
  *Methods — Special functions that implement operations that are usually performed only on instances of the class
  *Objects — Instances of classes, which contain actual data values stored in the objects' properties
  *Packages — Folders that define a scope for class and function naming

These are general descriptions of these components and concepts. The [http://www.mathworks.com/access/helpdesk/help/techdoc/matlab_oop/brh2rgw.html online documentation] describes all of these components in detail.

A class instance is created by two different ways of calling the class constructor. 
A call with no argument will create the object with default properties:
{{{
>> T = transect;
}}}
A call with pairs of properties/properties-values will fill specified fields:
{{{
>> T = transect('creator','John Doe');
}}}